	John the Ripper FAQ.

The latest version of this FAQ may be viewed online at:

	http://www.openwall.com/john/doc/FAQ.shtml


	Help!  I can't run John.

If you're not familiar with your OS, you should probably not be using
John in the first place since John is a tool for system administrators.
However, here are the answers to a few (not very) common questions to
avoid having them asked over and over and for amusement.

Q: When I type "john" (or "john passwd", etc.), it says "command not
found" (or equivalent)?!
A: The examples given in John the Ripper documentation assume that you
know how to invoke newly-built programs from your shell.  On Unix-like
systems, it is typical to not have "." (the current directory) in your
$PATH (the list of directories to search for programs).  In that case,
you need to type "./john" (dot, slash, and "john", without the quotes)
to invoke the John binary executable located in the current directory.

Q: ...but I am on a Unix-like system and I don't seem to readily have a
John binary executable.
A: Please follow the instructions in INSTALL.

Q: When I double-click on "john.exe", a window flashes and disappears?!
A: You're not supposed to click.  You're supposed to run John from a
command-line shell.  On Windows, some of those shells would be cmd.exe,
command.com, or bash (the latter is available with Cygwin).


	Other trivial matters.

Q: How do I start John on my password file, use a specific cracking
mode, see the passwords it cracked, etc?
A: See README and EXAMPLES. :-)

Q: How do I "unshadow"?
A: See EXAMPLES on how to combine your passwd and shadow files.  If you
don't have root access, there's no answer for you here. :-)

Q: Why doesn't John load my password file?  It says "No password hashes
loaded".
A: Your password file might be shadowed.  You need to get both
/etc/passwd and the shadow file, and combine them into one file for use
with John.  Please refer to EXAMPLES.  As the system administrator,
you're supposed to know the name and location of your shadow file.
A: All of the password hashes found in the file (that John recognizes as
such) might be already cracked by previous invocations of John.
A: The file you're trying to run John on might in fact not be a password
file at all.
A: Your command line syntax might be wrong, resulting in John trying to
load a wrong file.
A: Your password file format or hash type(s) might not be supported by
John, or at least by the version and build of John that you're using.
If you're positive that this is the case, you may want to check the
contributed resources list on John the Ripper homepage for a suitable
patch and, if unsuccessful with that, post a note to the mailing list
(see CREDITS) including a sample password file line that John does not
load (please make sure that the password is already changed by the time
you post).

Q: I am getting the error "fopen: ./all.chr: No such file or directory".
Q: Where are the charset files?
A: Development versions of John the Ripper might not include the charset
files.  You're supposed to take them out of the latest official release.

Q: Where do I get wordlists for use with John?
A: http://www.openwall.com/wordlists/

Q: Where do I get new versions of John the Ripper?
Q: What is the primary website for John the Ripper?
A: http://www.openwall.com/john/

Q: How can I contact you (the author)?
A: See CREDITS.


	(Semi-)advanced topics.

Q: I've recently switched my system to MD5-based (or Blowfish-based)
password hashes, but there are still some DES-based hashes in the
password file.  How do I handle multiple hash types in one file?
A: Use the "--format=..." option to tell John which hashes you would
like it to load.  Unfortunately, you will have to run John for each hash
type separately.  See OPTIONS.

Q: I have 10 users, but John said it loaded 15 password hashes.  What's
going on?
A: Some extremely poorly designed hash types (Windows NT LM hashes and
double-length DES-based crypt(3) hashes also known as "bigcrypt" or
"crypt16") have a property that allows John to split their encodings
into two separate hashes (corresponding to halves of plaintext
passwords) on load.  John then proceeds to crack those hashes
separately, so at a given time it may have only one of two halves of
some passwords cracked.  If interrupted and restarted, it would need to
only load the hashes which correspond to uncracked password halves, so
the number of such hashes is what John reports (in all cases, for
consistency).

Q: Why doesn't John display a progress indicator for the "incremental"
mode?
A: Do you really want to see a 0% all the time?  As explained in MODES,
"incremental" mode is not supposed to terminate in a reasonable time.
(There are a few exceptions to this, so a progress indicator might be
added at some point.)

Q: Why does John display meaningless c/s values while cracking, instead
of real "crypts per second" rate?
A: The values displayed by John mean combinations (of username and
password) per second, not crypts per second.  This is the effective
cracking speed that you get on a particular set of password hashes, and
it may be useful, for example, to tune the "--salts=..." threshold and
other settings.  If you want a benchmark of the low-level password
hashing routines only, use "--test".  (Future versions of John the
Ripper might report effective and raw c/s rates for different time
intervals.  These won't fit on the current status line, though.)

Q: I just noticed that the c/s rate reported while using "incremental"
mode is a lot lower than it is with other cracking modes.  Why?
A: You're probably running John for a few seconds only.  The current
"incremental" mode implementation uses large character sets which need
to be expanded into even larger data structures in memory each time John
switches to a different password length.  Fortunately, this is only
noticeable when John has just started since the length switches become
rare after a few minutes.  For long-living sessions, which is where we
care about performance the most, this overhead is negligible.  This is a
very low price for the better order of candidate passwords tried.

Q: How can I test John's password hashing routines for proper operation?
A: John always performs a self-test when you run it on a password file
and refuses to work if an error occurs.  If you need to test all of the
low-level routines at once, use "--test".

Q: Does John support multi-processing or distributed processing?
A: There's no real MP or distributed processing support in John right
now, but you can distribute the work between a few nodes manually.  One
approach would be to have your nodes (CPUs, machines) each try different
password lengths.  This is easily accomplished with "incremental" mode's
"MinLen" and "MaxLen" settings (see CONFIG).  Typically, you would not
really need to split the work for "single crack" and wordlist modes
since these are relatively quick, although you may dedicate one node to
those initially.  You may safely run multiple instances of John in the
same working directory, all writing to the same "pot file" (this is a
feature).  You do, however, need to assign each of them a unique session
name, with "--session".  Other approaches, such as splitting password
files naively (without regard to salts), are typically less efficient
(in some cases to the extent where there's no speedup from using
multiple processors at all).


	Miscellaneous.

Q: Is John the Ripper better than Crack?
A: I think so, but I am biased.  John is much faster, has many password
hash types supported out of the box and even more with contributed
patches, has "incremental" mode (try all possible candidate passwords in
order of decreasing estimated probability) and other features not found
in Crack, and is natively available on more platforms.  However, one
feature that is currently unique to Crack is its DAWG (Directed Acyclic
Word Graphs) wordlist compression, which saves disk space needed to
store wordlists.

Q: Is John the Ripper better than L0phtCrack?
A: In some aspects, yes (but I am biased).  John runs on many platforms.
For example, you can have it crack Windows passwords while running on
Linux or Mac OS X on PowerPC (and it will take advantage of AltiVec
acceleration there!)  L0phtCrack only runs on Windows.  John's
performance at Windows NT LM hashes (case-insensitive, DES-based) is
comparable to that of recent versions of L0phtCrack (LC 5 as of this
writing), but John offers "incremental" mode (see the answer to the
previous question) which lets it outperform L0phtCrack at LM hashes in
some cases.  John is also better at Unix passwords.  L0phtCrack, on the
other hand, is specialized for Windows passwords and includes many
Windows-specific features that John does not.  Finally, L0phtCrack is a
Windows GUI application, which is a clear advantage for that platform.

$Id: FAQ,v 1.4 2005/09/06 03:09:56 solar Exp $
